Stylus constructors (#2452)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: docs/stylus/how-tos/using-constructors.mdx

---
title: 'Using constructors with Stylus'
description: 'A comprehensive guide to implementing and deploying smart contracts with constructors in Stylus'
sidebar_label: 'Using constructors'
author: 'anegg0'
sme: 'anegg0'
user_story: 'As a Rust developer, I want to understand how to implement and use constructors in Stylus smart contracts'
content_type: 'how-to'
sidebar_position: 3
---

import CustomDetails from '@site/src/components/CustomDetails';
import { VanillaAdmonition } from '@site/src/components/VanillaAdmonition/';

Constructors allow you to initialize your Stylus smart contracts with specific parameters when they're deployed. This guide will show you how to implement constructors in Rust, understand their behavior, and deploy contracts using them.

## What you'll accomplish

By the end of this guide, you'll be able to:

- Implement constructor functions in Stylus contracts

> - Understand constructor rules and limitations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Understand the constructor rules and limitations
```

- Deploy contracts with constructor parameters

> - Test constructor functionality

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Test the constructor functionality
```

Follow the instructions on [Rust Lang's installation page](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) to install a complete Rust toolchain (v1.88 or newer) on your system. After installation, ensure you can access the programs `rustup`, `rustc`, and `cargo` from your preferred terminal application.

</CustomDetails>

<CustomDetails summary="cargo stylus">

In your terminal, run:

```shell
cargo install --force cargo-stylus
```

Add WASM ([WebAssembly](https://webassembly.org/)) as a build target for the specific Rust toolchain you are using. The below example sets your default Rust toolchain to 1.88 as well as adding the WASM build target:

```shell
rustup default 1.88
rustup target add wasm32-unknown-unknown --toolchain 1.88
```

You can verify that cargo stylus is installed by running `cargo stylus --help` in your terminal, which will return a list of helpful commands.

</CustomDetails>

<CustomDetails summary="A local Arbitrum test node">

Instructions on how to set up a local Arbitrum test node can be found [in the Nitro-devnode repository](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-devnode).

</CustomDetails>

## Understanding Stylus constructors

> Stylus constructors provide an atomic way to deploy, activate, and initialize a contract in a single transaction. Without a constructor, your contract's storage might be accessed before your initialization logic runs, which can lead to unexpected behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stylus constructors provide an atomic way to deploy, activate, and initialize a contract in a single transaction. If your contract lacks a constructor, it may allow access to the contract's storage before the initialization logic runs, leading to unexpected behavior.
```
